feat: add 7702 doc in smart-contracts (#1351)
alchemyplatform/aa-sdk: site/pages/smart-contracts/upgrade-eoa-with-eip-7702.mdx

---
title: Upgrade Your EOA with EIP-7702
description: Learn how to upgrade your existing EOA to a smart account using EIP-7702 with Account Kit.
---

# Upgrade Your Externally Owned Account (EOA) with EIP-7702

[EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702) introduces a straightforward way for Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs) to use smart contract account features. This is a major milestone in Ethereum’s account abstraction journey, enabling existing EOAs to benefit from functionality previously exclusive to smart accounts – such as batching actions, sponsoring transactions, and more.

With Account Kit, you can support this upgrade path directly into your app or wallet. Users will seamlessly access advanced features like transaction batching, session keys, and gas sponsorship, while maintaining their existing EOA address and without having to migrate assets.

> Below, we’ll walk you through:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below we will guide you through **when to use EIP-7702** and how to use Account Kit to **upgrade your existing embedded EOAs to a smart contract account**, specifically to Modular Account v2.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- When to use EIP-7702

> - How to use EIP-7702 with Account Kit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Signer requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Using EIP-7702 in practice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - When EIP-7702 will be available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - When EIP-7702 will be available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Upgrade Your Externally Owned Account (EOA) with EIP-7702
description: Learn how to upgrade your existing EOA to a smart account using EIP-7702 with Account Kit.
---

# Upgrade Your Externally Owned Account (EOA) with EIP-7702

> Externally-owned accounts (EOAs) are accounts that are only controlled by a private key or seed phrase, and are not smart contract accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's just start with the EIP introduction first rather than going in to EOA details

> [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702) introduces a straightforward way for Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs) to use smart contract code at their address. This is a major milestone in Ethereum’s account abstraction journey, enabling existing EOAs to benefit from functionality previously exclusive to smart accounts – such as batching actions, sponsored transactions, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702) introduces a straightforward way for Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs) to use smart contract account features. This is a major milestone in Ethereum’s account abstraction journey, enabling existing EOAs to benefit from functionality previously exclusive to smart accounts – such as batching actions, sponsored transactions, and more.
```

Reviewer 2: last line "batching actions, sponsoring transactions"

> With [Account Kit](https://accountkit.alchemy.com) from Alchemy, you can integrate this upgrade path directly into your app or wallet. Users will seamlessly enjoy advanced features like multi-call batching, session keys, and gas sponsorship, with the convenience of using existing account addresses and without asset migrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Account Kit, you can support this upgrade path directly into your app or wallet. Users will seamlessly access advanced features like transaction batching, session keys, and gas sponsorship, while maintaining their existing EOA address and without having to migrate assets.
```

> Below, we’ll walk you through:

Reviewer: We might not need this preview here. I think we should set context but let's simplify. This is kind of confusing because there are 2 usage guides "How to use..." "Using ..."

Maybe we say - Below we will guide you through when to use EIP-7702 and how to leverage Account Kit to upgrade your existing embedded EOAs to a smart contract accounts, specifically to Modular Account v2.

- When to use EIP-7702
- How to use EIP-7702 with Account Kit
- Signer requirements
- Using EIP-7702 in practice
- When EIP-7702 will be available

> ## When to Use EIP-7702?

Reviewer: Should we also add a note here on when to NOT use EIP 7702? We could say something like what we have in the blog

For developers that haven’t yet deployed their application, consider using smart accounts..

EIP-7702 is particularly useful in the following scenarios:

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we simply all instances of "EOA accounts" to "EOAs"?

1. You have an app using embedded wallets with EOA accounts
2. You have a wallet using EOA accounts

You can upgrade your users' EOA accounts directly to a smart account at their current address. This means you don’t have to move assets.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See our full recommendations [here](https://www.alchemy.com/blog/eip-7702-ethereum-pectra-hardfork#for-developers-that-havent-yet-deployed-their-application).
```

#### Gain Smart Account Features

By upgrading to a smart account, you immediately unlock features such as:

- **Batching actions**: Execute multiple operations in a single transaction.
- **Gas sponsorship**: Let your users pay zero gas by using sponsored transactions, or use custom paymaster contracts that allow you to pay gas in other tokens.
- **Custom session keys**: Provide temporary keys to interact with your app without exposing your primary signer, allowing you to skip transaction confirmations.

> ## How to Use EIP-7702

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## EIP-7702 Compatible Accounts
```

> Account Kit provides **Modular Account V2**, which is an [ERC-4337](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337) compliant account that you can upgrade EOAs to with EIP-7702. It also supports installing [ERC-6900](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6900) modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account Kit provides an EIP-7702 compatible smart account, [Modular Account v2](#TODO/linktomav2), that you can upgrade existing EOAs to. This ERC-4337 compatible account is the cheapest on the market, fully audited, and supports ecosystem modules for advanced functionality. 
```

To use EIP-7702 with Account Kit, you can simply create a smart account client for Modular Account V2 with `mode` set to `"7702"`. Account Kit will automatically handles the upgrade from the regular EOA to the 7702-delegated smart EOA.

[Jump to example](#using-eip-7702)

## Signer Requirements

> To use EIP-7702, you need a signer that generate authorization signature. Typically, this is implemented as a method called `signAuthorization`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use EIP-7702, you need a signer that can generate an authorization signature. Typically, this is implemented as a method called `signAuthorization`.
```

Reviewer: We should add something like: Regardless of the signer you choose, you'll need to create an instance of a `SmartAccountSigner` that you can pass to the client.

### Out-of-the-Box Support in Account Kit

**Alchemy Signer**

> If you’re using Alchemy Signer, it already supports signing EIP-7702 authorizations. This means you can handle upgrades seamlessly for your users, either via Account Kit’s React hooks in `@account-kit/react` or with the low-level package `@account-kit/smart-contracts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alchemy Signer supports signing EIP-7702 authorizations. This means you can create new embedded EOAs with social login that are upgradable to smart accounts seamlessly for your users. See [this guide](#TODO/using-7702-react-doc) for using simple React Hooks.

If you are a developer without existing embedded wallet users, considering [using smart accounts ](/react-getting-started) from the start without EIP-7702. [Decide](https://www.alchemy.com/blog/eip-7702-ethereum-pectra-hardfork#for-developers-that-havent-yet-deployed-their-application) what's best for you!
```

> Please follow either the [React guide](/react/overview) or the [Signer guide](/signer/overview), making sure to use Modular Account V2 with `mode` set to `"7702"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Local Signer**

> Use a local account signer if you are integrating with a locally managed private key (e.g. you are a self-custodial wallet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have locally managed private keys (e.g. you are a self-custodial wallet), you can use a local account signer to upgrade your EOAs to smart accounts. 
```

:::note
Note: viem requires that you generate a [Private Key account](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet#local-accounts-private-key-mnemonic-etc) to use `signAuthorization`, meaning you cannot use Mnemonic accounts or Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) accounts yet.
:::

```ts [types.ts] twoslash
import { LocalAccountSigner } from "@aa-sdk/core";

const privateKey = "0x..."; // Private key

const signer = LocalAccountSigner.privateKeyToAccountSigner(privateKey);
```

> ### Using Third Party Signers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bring a third party wallet or signer
```

> If you have a custom signer or another third-party provider, you'll need to verify that it supports `signAuthorization`, and connect it to Account Kit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account Kit provides support for you to bring your existing custom signer or another third-party embedded wallet provider! As long as your signer supports `signAuthorization` you can connect it to Account Kit and upgrade existing EOAs to smart accounts. 
```

> Follow the guide here to understand how to implement the interface: [Third Party Signers](/third-party/signers#implementing-smartaccountauthenticator-or-smartaccountsigner).

Reviewer: I thought there was some nuance here on actually using this guide? 

The goal is that they need to generate a SmartAccountSigner to pass to the client, right?

Author: Yes. If they can implement the optional method `signAuthorization`, the code in `@account-kit/smart-contracts` will work seamlessly. The trickiness is just in implementing `signAuthorization` - they'll need to correctly generate the hash to sign, probably using `viem`'s `hashAuthorization` function.

> In most cases, you should be able to pass the arguments through to the inner signer.

Reviewer: Not really sure what this means

Author: I was trying to indicate how it's not a lot of work to "hook things up", but we can drop this sentence.

## Using EIP-7702

> Oonce your account type and signer is configured, you're ready to use EIP-7702!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your signer is configured and you have a `SmartAccountSigner` instance, you're ready to use EIP-7702 and upgrade EOAs to smart accounts! Account Kit will handle all of the complexity of delegating your account to a smart account and signing transactions correctly.
```

> - The smary account client will automatically detect if your account is not yet delegated with 7702 when you send a user operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The smart account client will automatically detect if your account is not yet delegated with 7702 when you send a user operation.
```

Reviewer 2: very smary hahaha

  - If it is not yet delegated, it will request an authorization signature and include that in the submitted user operation.
- The Alchemy ERC-4337 bundler will automatically include the EIP-7702 authorization with the first user op that your account performs.

:::code-group

```ts [example.ts] twoslash
import { createModularAccountV2Client } from "@account-kit/smart-contracts";
import { sepolia, alchemy } from "@account-kit/infra";
import { signer } from "./signer.js";

// Constructing the smart account client
const smartAccountClient = await createModularAccountV2Client({
  mode: "7702",

>   transport: alchemy({ apiKey: "your-api-key" }),

Reviewer: add comment with link to dashboard for api keu

Author: what should the comment say?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transport: alchemy({ apiKey: "your-api-key" }), // Get your API key: https://dashboard.alchemy.com/apps
```
